ExxonMobil has funded decades of climate denial research and lobbying activities, while its internal scientists have accurately predicted the trajectory of global warming since the 1970s. Lee Raymond, as CEO of ExxonMobil from 1993 to 2005, directly directed the company's efforts to undermine public understanding of climate science and delay regulatory action. ExxonMobil has given millions of dollars to think tanks like the Heartland Institute and the Global Climate Coalition. Internal documents later revealed that ExxonMobil researchers had privately confirmed that burning fossil fuels was causing dangerous global warming. Shell produced a comprehensive internal report in 1988 called Climate of Concern that accurately described the catastrophic risks of continuing to burn fossil fuels. Ben van Beurden as CEO of Shell publicly pledged to reduce emissions while the company was developing new oil fields in the Arctic and deep-water Gulf. In 2021 a Dutch court ruled that Shell must reduce its absolute carbon emissions by forty-five percent by 2030. Shell challenged the decision, continuing to invest in new fossil fuel extraction projects. The Koch brothers used their vast wealth from Koch Industries to fund a network of organizations dedicated to obstructing climate legislation in America. Koch Industries operates oil refineries, pipelines and chemical plants. The Koch Network has donated hundreds of millions of dollars to political campaigns and think tanks opposing climate action. Rex Tillerson served as CEO of ExxonMobil and later became Secretary of State under President Donald Trump. Trump pulled the US out of the Paris Climate Agreement in 2017, dealing a blow to international climate cooperation. Biden rejoined the Paris Agreement on his first day in office in January 2021. But the four-year hiatus in American involvement did irreparable damage to international climate cooperation. Climate scientists at NASA, NOAA, and research universities have extensively documented rapid global warming, sea level rise, and extreme weather events. James Hansen testified before Congress in 1988 that man-made climate change was already occurring. The window to avoid the most devastating climate impacts is fast closing despite decades of warnings.