SpaceX, a company founded by Elon Musk in 2002, has revolutionized the commercial space industry by developing the reusable Falcon 9 rocket. Gwynne Shotwell serves as SpaceX's president and chief operating officer and has been instrumental in making the company a leading provider of global satellite launch services. SpaceX developed the Dragon spacecraft which became the first commercial vehicle to deliver cargo to the International Space Station. Starlink satellites have made broadband internet available to remote areas around the world. NASA selected SpaceX to develop the Human Landing System for the Artemis program. Blue Origin, founded by Jeff Bezos, challenged the choice, but SpaceX ultimately won. NASA Administrator Bill Nelson defended the choice of SpaceX as the most technologically viable and cost-effective solution. The Artemis program aims to return humans to the Moon and establish a permanent presence on the Moon. The James Webb Space Telescope was launched on December 25, 2021 by an Ariane 5 rocket. Northrop Grumman built the telescope as the primary contractor. The project was jointly implemented by NASA, the European Space Agency and the Canadian Space Agency. Thomas Zurbuchen called Webb's first images an extraordinary achievement that changed our understanding of the universe. India's ISRO successfully landed Chandrayaan-3 near the South Pole of the Moon on 23 August 2023. S Somnath was leading this historic achievement as Chairman of ISRO. Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrated the achievement with ISRO scientists through a video call and announced that the landing site would be named Shiva Shakti. India became the first country in the world to land near the South Pole of the Moon. Russia's Roscosmos' Luna-25 mission failed days before the successful landing of Chandrayaan-3. China's National Space Administration has made rapid progress with the Chang'e lunar exploration program and the Tiangong space station. The space race of the 21st century now includes countries other than the US and Russia, which is very encouraging for the future of space exploration.