Climate change is one of the most serious challenges facing humanity in the twenty-first century. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has issued alarming scientific reports confirming that global temperatures have risen by 1.1 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Major industrialized countries such as the United States of America, China, and the European Union bear the greatest historical responsibility for this rise as a result of burning fossil fuels for many decades. The Paris Climate Agreement, signed by one hundred and eighty-nine countries in 2015, aims to limit temperature rises to less than two degrees Celsius. Greta Thunberg, the young Swedish activist, launched the school strike movement for climate and inspired millions of young people around the world to demand climate justice. Thunberg met world leaders at the United Nations and in front of European parliaments, bringing a clear message that time is running out and future generations will not forgive inaction. Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon has reached record levels of serious scientific concern. The Amazon rainforest contains ten percent of all living organisms on the planet and plays a pivotal role in regulating the global climate. Scientists warn that continued destruction could push this vital ecosystem towards a point of no return, where dense forests turn into dry savannah. Renewable energy has made amazing progress, with solar and wind energy becoming the lowest costs in human history. Companies like Vestas Wind and First Solar are leaders in this major energy transition. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are investing heavily in solar energy despite their historical dependence on oil and gas. Climate disasters are on the rise at an alarming rate in various parts of the world. The catastrophic floods in Pakistan in 2022 affected thirty million people and proved that the countries of the Global South suffer the most severe consequences, even though they are historically the least responsible for climate change. Climate justice requires that rich countries pay for the damage they inflict on developing countries. The future depends on political will, international cooperation and a rapid transition towards a zero-carbon economy. Every delay in taking the necessary action increases the human and economic costs and makes solutions more difficult and complex.