Pfizer and BioNTech jointly developed a highly effective mRNA vaccine against COVID-19. Pfizer led by Albert Bourla and BioNTech led by Ugur Sahin led this historic collaboration. The vaccine was found to be ninety-five percent effective in clinical trials, making it one of the most effective vaccines in medical history. The vaccine was produced at Pfizer's factory in the Belgian city of Pers and global distribution was ensured through a cold chain of minus seventy degrees Celsius. Johnson and Johnson developed the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine using adenoviral vector technology. CEO Alex Gorsky supported the company's commitment to equitable global distribution. The biggest feature of the Janssen vaccine was that it could be given in only one dose. Johnson and Johnson partnered with Merck to produce additional doses. The vaccine was made available to low-income countries at cost price through the COVAX facility. Moderna developed its mRNA-1273 vaccine in a significant collaboration with the National Institutes of Health. NIAID, led by Anthony Fauci, provided initial funding and scientific support to Moderna. CEO Stephane Bancel transformed the company from a small biotechnology startup into a major drug manufacturer. Moderna expanded its manufacturing capacity by establishing production partnerships in Europe, Africa and Asia. AstraZeneca developed its COVID-19 vaccine in collaboration with the University of Oxford. Under Pascal Soriot's leadership, AstraZeneca committed to distributing the vaccine at cost price in perpetuity to unprofitable and low-income countries during the pandemic. Professor Sarah Gilbert and her team at the Jenner Institute developed the chimpanzee adenoviral vector platform. Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, partnered with AstraZeneca to produce more than a billion doses for developing countries. The World Health Organization's Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus led the COVAX initiative which worked with Gavi and CEPI to ensure global vaccine equity. Vaccine nationalism and the policy of hoarding supplies by rich countries seriously hampered the goals of COVAX. This inequity was one of the greatest ethical failures of the global pandemic response.