The COVID-19 pandemic has put global health systems to an unprecedented test. The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 spread from Wuhan in China to all countries in the world within a few months and claimed millions of lives. The World Health Organization, under its Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared a global health emergency in March 2020. Older people and people with previous illnesses such as diabetes, heart disease and respiratory diseases were particularly affected. Pfizer and BioNTech developed the world's first mRNA vaccine against COVID-19 in record time. Albert Bourla, the CEO of Pfizer, announced the exceptionally high effectiveness of the vaccine in November 2020. BioNTech, a German biotechnology company, had been researching mRNA technology for many years and was now able to use this expertise in the crisis. The European Medicines Agency and the FDA in the US granted emergency approval within a few months. Moderna also developed an mRNA vaccine with comparable effectiveness. The rapid development of both vaccines was only possible through decades of basic research and massive government investments. Germany invested significant resources in vaccine development through BioNTech, contributing to one of the most significant medical achievements in history. The federal government under Chancellor Angela Merkel coordinated European vaccine procurement and national vaccination campaigns. Long COVID as a secondary disease affects millions of people worldwide and presents health systems with new challenges. Those affected suffer from persistent fatigue, problems concentrating and shortness of breath, which can persist for months or years after the acute infection. German research institutions including the Charité in Berlin and the German Center for Infection Research are working intensively on research into this disease. The social and economic costs of Long COVID are enormous. The pandemic has significantly accelerated the digitalization of the German healthcare system. Telemedicine platforms boomed and were used by millions of patients for the first time. Companies such as Techniker Krankenkasse and Gematik are working to sustainably modernize the digital infrastructure of the healthcare system. Artificial intelligence is increasingly being used for the early detection of diseases and the development of new drugs. The lessons from the pandemic must be incorporated into a better global health architecture. Pandemic prevention, vaccine equity and the strengthening of international health institutions are the tasks of the coming decades.