The COVID-19 pandemic has added a new chapter to the history of world health. The SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged in China's Wuhan city in late 2019 and spread across the world in just a few months. World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus declared it a global pandemic in March 2020. This virus has killed millions of people and caused huge damage to the global economy. Pfizer and BioNTech together developed the world's first mRNA vaccine, one of the greatest achievements in medical science. Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla announced the extraordinary effectiveness of the vaccine in November 2020. The US FDA and Europe's EMA granted emergency use authorization within a few months. Moderna also developed a highly effective vaccine using the same technology. Anthony Fauci, who for decades was the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, became the most important public health official during the pandemic. The COVAX initiative was led by WHO, Gavi and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, working to deliver vaccines to poor countries. Vaccine inequity became a major ethical and practical problem with rich countries purchasing more vaccines. Symptoms of long-lasting COVID, called Long COVID, are affecting millions of people around the world. Its main symptoms are severe fatigue, mental fog, difficulty in breathing and heart problems. The National Institutes of Health has launched a large-scale research to understand the causes and treatment of Long COVID. The Covid pandemic in India exposed serious shortcomings in health services. Lack of oxygen, non-availability of beds in hospitals and black marketing of medicines devastated thousands of families. However, India conducted the world's largest vaccination campaign through its CoWin platform and administered more than two billion vaccines. The lessons learned from this pandemic will require us to build a strong global health framework. It is our collective responsibility to prepare for future pandemics and ensure equitable access to health.