SpaceX was founded in 2002 by Elon Musk and the company has revolutionized the space industry by developing reusable rocket technology. Falcon 9 rocket can land and take off again, which has significantly reduced the cost of satellite launch. NASA's Artemis program aims to send humans back to the Moon by the mid-2020s. SpaceX was given the contract by NASA to develop Human Landing System in which Jeff Bezos's Blue Origin company was defeated. The James Webb Space Telescope was launched on 25 December 2021 and has returned stunning images of the early universe. NASA, European Space Agency and Canadian Space Agency have jointly developed this telescope. This telescope can see galaxies formed just a few hundred million years after the Big Bang, giving a new dimension to the understanding of our universe. India's space program achieved a historic feat in August 2023 when Chandrayaan-3 successfully landed near the south pole of the Moon. Indian Space Research Organization ISRO became the fourth country to perform a soft landing on the Moon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrated this historic achievement with ISRO scientists. This success is a testament to India's growing technological capabilities. Thousands of exoplanets have been discovered with the help of Kepler Space Telescope and Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite. The SETI Institute and NASA's Astrobiology Program are developing new methods to search for signs of life in the atmospheres of distant planets. The discovery of phosphine gas in the atmosphere of Venus in 2020 sparked new debate on the possibility of extraterrestrial life. Companies like Blue Origin, Rocket Lab and Virgin Galactic are working towards making space tourism a reality. The International Space Station is operated by a joint effort of NASA, Roscosmos, ESA, JAXA and CSA. NVIDIA's GPU chips and artificial intelligence are now being used to analyze space data and process satellite images. Space exploration is humanity's most ambitious journey to help us understand our place in the universe. Cooperation in space can become a powerful means of peace and scientific advancement among countries.