Climate change is the greatest crisis facing our generation. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has stated that global temperatures have risen by 1.1 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Decades of research by NASA and NOAA have proven that this warming is primarily caused by the burning of fossil fuels. The effects of this rising temperature are being felt all over the world. Greta Thunberg, a young Swedish environmental activist, started a climate walkout in front of the Swedish Parliament in 2018. This single man's movement inspired millions of youth around the world. Thunberg met with Pope Francis, Barack Obama and several world leaders to demand climate action. Although the Paris Agreement was signed in 2015, global carbon emissions continue to rise. Amazon deforestation is occurring at an alarming rate. Brazil's Amazon region is experiencing massive deforestation. Scientists have warned that if the deforestation is not stopped, the Amazon will pass a point of no return and dense forests will turn into dry grasslands. Ten percent of all species on Earth are found in the Amazon River Basin. Renewable energy technology is developing very rapidly. Solar energy and wind energy have now become the cheapest energy sources in most parts of the world. Vestas, First Solar and SunPower are leading companies in this field. Tesla's energy storage products have revolutionized the use of renewable energy. Solar power projects are expanding rapidly in Maharashtra. The effects of climate change are now clearly visible in Maharashtra. Drought has increased in Marathwada while extreme rainfall events are happening frequently in Konkan. It is a very difficult time for farmers as the rain patterns are changing making it difficult to plan crops. Even in cities like Pune, the frequency of heat waves is increasing. Urgent and drastic measures are needed to fight climate change. It is our responsibility to leave a healthy and beautiful earth for future generations.